Docs for primitive key support (#4478)
confluentinc/ksql: docs-md/developer-guide/joins/partition-data.md

join column are co-located on the same stream task, the join column must
coincide with the column that the sources are partitioned by.

> Keys

Author: Note: changed from _Primitive Keys_ to _Keys_ as a _primitive_ key means something very specific in SQL: its a _unique_ non-null key.  

In KSQL tables have primitive keys and streams do not. This is because stream are just a stream of facts/events. Each stands alone.  Keys are not _unique_: duplicate keys are allowed.

Hence, we should standardize on only using _primitive_ keys when talking about _tables_ and just _keys_ when talking about streams.

Reviewer: I assume you meant `s/primitive/primary/g`?

----

A *key*, when present, defines the partitioning column. Tables are
always partitioned by their primary key, and ksqlDB doesn't allow repartitioning
of tables, so you can only use a table's primary key as a join column.

Streams, on the other hand, may not have a defined key or may have a key that
differs from the join column. In these cases, ksqlDB internally repartitions
the stream, which implicitly defines a key for it.

ksqlDB requires keys to use the `KAFKA` format. For more information, see
[Serialization Formats](serialization.md#serialization-formats). If internally

> repartitioning, the correct format will be used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
repartitioning, ksqlDB uses the correct format.
```

Because you can only use the primary key of a table as a joining column, it's
important to understand how keys are defined. For both streams and tables, the
column that represents the key has the name `ROWKEY`.

When you create a table by using a CREATE TABLE statement, the key of the
table is the same as that of the records in the underlying Kafka topic.

> It is important that you set the type of the `ROWKEY` column in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must set the type of the `ROWKEY` column in the
```

> CREATE TABLE statement to match the key data in the underlying Kafka topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CREATE TABLE statement to match the key data in the underlying {{ site.ak }} topic.
```

When you create a table by using a CREATE TABLE AS SELECT statement, the key of
the resulting table is determined as follows:

- If the FROM clause contains a stream, the statement must have a GROUP BY clause,
  and the grouping columns determine the key of the resulting table.

>     - When grouping by a single column or expression the type of `ROWKEY` in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - When grouping by a single column or expression, the type of `ROWKEY` in the
```

    resulting stream matches the type of the column or expression.

>     - When grouping by multiple columns or expressions the type of `ROWKEY` in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - When grouping by multiple columns or expressions, the type of `ROWKEY` in the
```

>     resulting stream is a `STRING`.

Reviewer: would be nice to clarify what this `STRING` is (or link to some documentation that clarifies it)

Author: Will be done in next PR!

- If the FROM clause contains only tables and no GROUP BY clause, the key is
  copied over from the key of the table(s) in the FROM clause.
- If the FROM clause contains only tables and has a GROUP BY clause, the
  grouping columns determine the key of the resulting table.

>     - When grouping by a single column or expression the type of `ROWKEY` in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - When grouping by a single column or expression, the type of `ROWKEY` in the
```

    resulting stream matches the type of the column or expression.

>     - When grouping by multiple columns or expressions the type of `ROWKEY` in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - When grouping by multiple columns or expressions, the type of `ROWKEY` in the
```

    resulting stream is a `STRING`.

The following example shows a `users` table joined with a `clicks` stream
on the `userId` column. The `users` table has the correct primary key
`userId` that coincides with the joining column. But the `clicks` stream
doesn't have a defined key, and ksqlDB must repartition it on the joining
column (`userId`) and assign the key before performing the join.

```sql
    -- clicks stream, with an unknown key.
    -- the schema of stream clicks is: ROWTIME BIGINT | ROWKEY STRING | USERID BIGINT | URL STRING

>     CREATE STREAM clicks (userId BIGINT, url STRING) WITH(kafka_topic='clickstream', value_format='json');

Author: Changed to join on a non-STRING column

    -- the primary key of table users is a BIGINT. 
    -- The userId column in the value matches the key, so can be used as an alias for ROWKEY in queries to make them more readable.
    -- the schema of table users is: ROWTIME BIGINT | ROWKEY BIGINT | USERID BIGINT | FULLNAME STRING
    CREATE TABLE  users  (ROWKEY BIGINT KEY, userId BIGINT, fullName STRING) WITH(kafka_topic='users', value_format='json', key='userId');

>     -- join of users table with clicks stream, joining on the tables primary key alias and the streams userId column: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    -- join of users table with clicks stream, joining on the table's primary key alias and the stream's userId column: 
```

both sides of the join, are delivered to the same stream task during
processing.

### Records Have the Same Keying Schema

For a join to work, the keys from both sides must have the same SQL type.

For example, you can join a stream of user clicks that's keyed on a `VARCHAR`
user id with a table of user profiles that's also keyed on a `VARCHAR` user id.
Records with the exact same user id on both sides will be joined.

> If the schema of the columns you wish to join on do not match it may be possible

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the schema of the columns you wish to join on don't match, it may be possible
```

to `CAST` one side to match the other. For example, if one side of the join
had a `INT` userId column, and the other a `LONG`, then you may choose to cast
the `INT` side to a `LONG`:

```sql
    -- stream with INT userId
    CREATE STREAM clicks (userId INT, url STRING) WITH(kafka_topic='clickstream', value_format='json');

    -- table with BIGINT userId stored in they key:

>     CREATE TABLE  users  (ROWKEY BIGINT KEY, fullName STRING) WITH(kafka_topic='users', value_format='json');

Reviewer: I think it would be good to have the example above explicitly name `userID` as the `KEY` - I know this isn't necessary for the example, but I think it's good to have an example of a stream with a key declared using the `KEY` syntax

Author: I've deliberately not added the WITH KEY bit as its not required. The example only has what's needed.  Adding additional stuff if just noise IMHO and can lead to confusion.

Plus I intend to drop the whole WITH KEY thing soon.

So do you mind if we leave this as it is?
